---
title: "User-Experience Design"
date: 2022-02-04
draft: false
author: "Randeep Singh"
Description: "This post focuses on the rise of User-Experience Design in the past couple of decades and how search engine optimization has become such a critical role in directing traffic to your site."
---

### The Rise of User-Experience Design

What is User Experience Design? User Experience is the feeling a user experience while interacting with a website or application. The user experience is a critical step in the development cycle as it focuses on fulfilling the user's needs or desires. User experience is also a strategic method to help avoid expensive revisions down the line. Companies can not change whole elements on their products without foreseeing the consequences of such changes. Interfaces need to be fluid and evolve as the userbases' needs change. Fluid discussion and user testing are vital in order to allow interfaces to behave as such. By creating low fidelity and interactive prototypes in front of users, the UX team is able to identify issues early on and work towards fixing them and also find more effective solutions using user feedback. By creating these quick interactive mockups, discovery costs are low as a result while fluid paths can be sketched out to many different solutions. By understanding user experience, a company can effectively allocate its resources. A good application is reliant on strong communication between departments, management, creativity, and userbase.

### Search Engine Optimization

What is Search Engine Optimization (SEO)? SEO is the process of improving your site to increase its visibility when people search for products or services related to your business in many different search engines, such as Google, DuckDuckGo, Bing, etc. The better visibility your website has in search results, the more likely you are to garner attention and attract prospective customers to your business. SEO is the foundation of a holistic marketing ecosystem. When you understand what your userbase wants, you can implement that knowledge across your campaigns, your website, and social media properties. Keeping up with current trends is also important, just like when producing ad campaigns. By storing headers or other page content in media that is not text, it can make it difficult for search engine algorithms to identify. That is why using the "alt" in image tags is so important to allow search engines to recognize that content on the page. Using title tags is also very important, as many search engines will use those tags to display search results to the user. Adding descriptive meta tags helps as well, as search engines will often display these as page snippets under the title tags. Make sure to update your themes to account for seasonal changes as a specific seasonal-themed website may get fewer results shown in other seasons.